Birds of a feather flock together. Web resources of a category work closely for efficiency. 
Classification is a method of efficiently managing various resources. It is also a basic method for human beings to know the real world and syn-thesize experience. 
A Web Resource Space Model (in simple RSM) is a semantic data model for specifying, storing, managing and locating Web resources by appropriately classifying the contents of resources. A Web Resource Space Model (in simple RSM) enables users or ap-plications to operate resources by the SQL-like query language. 
A Web resource space is a multi-dimensional classification space where dimensions are discrete.  A Web resource space's intrinsic characteristics are worth studying as A Web resource space is not an ordinary distance space. A resource space can be normalized to increase the correctness of resource management by setting constraints on dimensions. 
Aiming at a Web semantic data model with characteristics of normali-zation and autonomy, this book develops the RSM systematically in methodology, model and theory. this book this book concerns the following contents: 
1.	The general methodology of the RSM, which includes the origin, fundamental concepts, characteristics and the development method.  The general methodology of the RSM, which includes the origin, fundamental concepts, characteristics and the development method helps understand the RSM and design resource spaces for applica-tions. 
2.	The relationship between the Resource Space Model and the Seman-tic Link Network. The integration of the two models forms a richer semantic data model to support advanced distributed applications. 
3.	The completeness and necessity theory for query operations of the Resource Space Model. 
4.	The algebra and calculus theory for query operations of the Resource Space Model.  The query capability and expressive power of the Resource Space Model are studied from two perspectives: resource space algebra and resource space calculus. 
5.	The complexity of searching the resource space.  We intend to un-veil the relationship between the searching efficiency and the num-ber of dimensions as well as the relationship between the searching efficiency and the distribution of coordinates. 
6.	The physical storage mechanism of the resource space. Its multi-dimensional and discrete characteristic is different from the relation-al database index (one dimensional) and previous multidimensional index (sequential numerical dimensions). 
7.	The P2P-based decentralized resource space.  The P2P-based decentralized resource space is an approach to en-abling the Resource Space Model to synergy normalization with au-tonomy. A structured P2P resource space solution and an unstruc-tured P2P resource space solution are studied. 
8.	The probabilistic Resource Space Model, which enables users or ap-plications to store and retrieve resources uncertainly. The probabilistic Resource Space Model, which enables users or ap-plications to store and retrieve resources uncertainly is a more general Resource Space Model. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank I's students Erlin Yao, Yunpeng Xing, Xiang Li, Chao He and Liang Feng who make important contribution to this work. Thanks also go to all team members of the China Knowledge Grid Research Group for all team members of the China Knowledge Grid Research Group's help and cooperation. 
Research work was financially supported by the National Basic Re-search Program of China (2003CB317000), the EU 6th Framework Project GREDIA (IST-FP6-034363), and the International Cooperation Program of the Ministry of Science and Technology of China (2006DFA11970). 
The Web resource space is a part of the resource space we live in.  The RSM is a promising model for effective management of versatile re-sources.  Integrating The RSM with the Semantic Link Network, the da-tabase models and the Web ontology mechanisms could form a powerful semantic platform for the future interconnection environment.  